And then eventually we'll kind of
move on to more high fidelity.
So this is really where I wanna start
kind of doing a little bit more in depth
testing.
I wanna kind of get into it and
a little bit more detail.
And like I said, these eventually can
become functional specifications for
your developer, which is great.
So your options there
are your clickable prototype,
which is a kind of good enough prototype.
I think a lot of people,
especially when they're designing apps,
they kind of wanna do every kind
of interaction and animation and
everything that goes into that prototype,
right?
And they try and create it all in Figma.
Well, I understand that and
I don't disapprove of that.
I think it is perfectly fine, but
sometimes it's kind of overkill and
it's better off to kind of just
do a basic clickable version.
And then you can kind of brief
the developer on what fancy animations you
want and all of that kind of stuff rather
than try and recreate it in Figma.
In part because Figma's pretty weak
when it comes to clickable prototypes or
interactive prototypes, should I say.
It's buggy.
Is it just me that finds it buggy?
It's fine with basic,
go from this screen to this screen, but
once you start having overlays and
modals, and
things are animated and
stuff like that, it often gets messy.
And you can waste a lot of time faffing
around trying to get this to work when
it would have been probably more sensible
to say to the developer putting note in
the Figma file saying,
I'd like it to do this, please.
I don't know whether the developers would
agree, they might wanna actually see it,
but that's my kind of feeling over it.
Quiet, hands go up, you beat, you won just
by a fraction of a second, go for it.
>> Well,
what about just doing a special element?
So like if you need
a specific interaction,
you don't need to include it on a page but
actually,
if you're prototyping single element,
then it's less buggy.
>> Yeah, is right.
Yeah, I mean, sometimes you can do that.
And that's a kind of nice middle ground
if you can get away with just doing it in
places.
Also, of course,
the other thing you can do is,
if you show one example of an interaction
on one part of the app doesn't mean you
have to recreate it absolutely everywhere.
One example is often enough.
So there are kind of ways around it.
But yeah, sorry.
>> I'm curious about blocks and modules.
>> Yes.
>> Do you have a preference
of what to call them?
I hear a variety of different-
>> I'm gonna come on to that later.
So yeah, I'm gonna talk about some
of the different elements and
when you use them because
that's a big part of it.
So we're gonna talk about design systems.
And part of problem with design
systems is you focus very much on what
these things look like,
not necessarily when you should use them.
And that's just as important, but
we'll come to that in a minute.
So why do I like clickable prototypes?
Well, it's a chance to start messing
around with the aesthetics when you start
doing a high fidelity clickable prototype.
And stakeholders can see how the brand
has been applied to the interface.
And also you can use,
do some testing around aesthetics and
the context that provides.
Again, I talk about testing aesthetics
in the user research and testing one,
so I won't get into that too much here.
Then, of course, with a clickable
prototype you can do navigational testing,
so you can test whether users are able to
successfully navigate the interface and
hierarchical testing as well,
whether they can find the most important
page elements on an individual page.
So I'm talking about the hierarchy
within an individual screen because
it's easy to miss pieces of
functionality and that kind of stuff.
And I will touch a little bit
on prototyping in a minute,
but there are some great prototyping tools
out there that you might wanna check out.
Listen is one that I find is great for
certain tests, and
I'll tell you about those later.
Maze is another I really like that,
again, aren't too expensive.
So they work really well and they're great
for doing testing clickable prototypes.
If you wanna go full blown, great,
do a fully interactive prototype,
and you've got the time and resources
to be able to do it by all means,
recreate as much of the finest experience
as you possibly can and want to.
Including animations and the ability
to interact with interface elements,
I'm less worried about the animations but
being able to show how different
interactive elements work is
pretty useful in a lot of cases.
So these create a much more
realistic experience and
a basic clickable prototype.
They act as a great specifications for
developers,
don't require developers to question
you all the time about what you meant by
this or how you want it meant it to work.
And a really big one is
there a great sales tool,
a really slick prototype,
really console people.
And when stakeholders all over or
even if you you're looking at potential
investors and stuff like that.
Like I said, I don't think Figma
is particularly good at those
rich interactive prototypes.
There are loads of other tools
around where you can import your
Figma file directly into it and
then create the interactions in there.
Just in mind, is one that I like to look
at I love the fact every time I mention
a product that always gets written down.
You ignore my advice, but you're
right down when I suggest a good app.
[LAUGH] So yeah, that's really
my approach to prototyping.
I pick the right type of prototype for
the right situation and go from there.
>> So you're taking your Figma files?
>> Yes.
>> Then putting it into there, you're not
creating it all from scratch just in mind?
>> I wouldn't personally,
because I like Figma and
I know it, but I recognize its weaknesses.
I think you can.
I'd have to remember, but
I think you can build, you you can't-
>> You're taking me to add all
the different interactions.
>> Yeah, that's how I work.
So I'd go Figma for the flat screens,
import into just in mind and
finish all the interactions there.
But you could build the whole thing in
just in mind if you wanted to, right?
It is your choice cuz one of
the big things for me, and
it's like, why has Figma not put this in?
You can't do data entry.
You can't type into a text field, right?
And even if that information isn't
being saved or doing anywhere,
it's a big part of a user flow
in an application is data entry.
And you can't do it within
prototyping in Figma.